---
layout: post
title:  The Idea Machine 
tags: idea-machine 2020 MIT Harvard
---

## Learning at Harvard and MIT in the Age of Artificial Intelligence

### Monday

Total work time: 12:10 

Cosyne abstract submissions are due in three days. Ila and I agreed to submit our NeurIPS paper
with a neuroscience focus to make it more interesting to the systems neuroscience folk. Nimrod 
and I want to submit our work, but we had a problem. He wanted a neural model, but all we had
was a Bayesian model. For the past week, I took the insights I had gleaned from the Bayesian model
and implemented a deep feed forward neural network model that does what we want. But Nimrod was again
unsatisfied. He wanted something that was biologically plausible i.e. used Hebbian learning, with
specific roles of dopamine-induced plasticity. So I spent the past two days working on the rate-based
model, trying to get it to work. After hours of parameter timing, it finally worked. I'm going to bed
happy.

I met with Paul Masset today and discussed his experience with CSHL. He also suggested on the
distributional RL project considering the non-batch setting.

### Tuesday

Total work time: 10:06

In 6.438 lecture today, Devavrat announced that we'd be switching from inference to learning,
and made a big deal of this transition without really explaining what it meant. As background,
the first half of 6.438 was excellent - great pace, clear explanations, close coordination 
between lectures and psets - but the past two weeks have been a hellish rollercoaster of 
too much material at too fast a pace with no psets to clarify or reinforce material. So 
today during lecture, I asked me study group, 

[11/10, 6:41 AM] Rylan Schaeffer: What is the difference between learning and inference?
[11/10, 8:06 AM] Hannah Lawrence: Here's a non-answer: Learning = what we did during lectures at the start of the semester. Inference = what we're forced to do during lectures now

On the flip side, Devavrat did say 




I hosted a study night tonight with Aaditya, Aida, Mikail and Sarthak. I learned that Aaditya went to Jefferson High school, one of the best schools in the country that offers college math and science courses, graduated at 16 and enrolled in MIT, and will now finish his MEng by age 20. Aida went to Stuyvesant, which is so famous that even Google autocorrect knows what it is. Famous alumni from her school include Eric Holder and David Axelrod.

[11/11, 12:05 AM] Aviv Netanyahu: Problem is with MIT is that nobody cares about you
[11/11, 12:06 AM] Aviv Netanyahu: They say they do but they dont
There's no one to talk to that can actually help


[11/10, 11:49 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: The pset was due last Thursday
[11/10, 11:49 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: NeurIPS posters were due last Friday
[11/10, 11:49 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: Even though the conference isn't for another month
[11/10, 11:49 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: I have a submission deadline this Thursday, and I'm submitting two papers. One is basically done, but the other is turning into a disaster.
[11/10, 11:56 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: I don't want to bad mouth the postdoc I'm working with, but I would appreciate if he would criticize less and contribute more
[11/10, 11:56 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: I get that things don't work at they ideally should, but telling me that we're failing short isn't helping us rectify our shortcomings
[11/10, 11:56 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: I just got out of a meeting with him where he told me that he doesn't like the story I'm trying to tell in the paper
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: I told him I can't think of an alternative and asked him for one
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: He doesn't have one
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: He couldn't think of one
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: He has written none of the code
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: He had written none of the paper
[11/10, 11:57 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: All the ideas came from me
[11/10, 11:58 PM] Rylan Schaeffer: Literally the only thing he has contributed is blocking progress

Vincent and I learned about Tenancy in Common. We think that this can provide the legal framework we're looking for.


### Wednesday

Total work time: 09:29

One day left to submit to Cosyne, with one abstract down and one more to go. I'm so sick of working 
on this amygdalar fear conditioning project. I told a friend that writing with Nimrod is a battle by 
itself. I said I feel like I'm in the car with a belligerent drunk driver who insists he can drive 
and fights me every time I try steering the car away from the edge.

Vincent and I looked more deeply into Tenancy in Common agreements and reached out to the firm 
that created this legal structure, Andy Sirkin's Sirkin Law, to find out more.

### Thursday

Total work time: 12:10

### Friday

Total work time: 3:51

### Saturday

Total work time: 5:44

### Sunday

Total work time: 7:59

