---
layout: post
title:  The Idea Machine 
tags: idea-machine 2020 MIT Harvard
---

## Learning at Harvard and MIT in the Age of Artificial Intelligence

### Monday


### Tuesday

I don't know why working more than 11 hours a day is so hard. It feels analogous to the four minute mile. Maybe if I can smash the record, I'll be able to smash it daily. Who knows?

I feel behind on everything. My 6.438 pset is due Thursday, and I still have 2ish problems left. I worked for hours with my study group and went to office hours to get help. Here's what happened at office hours. I start by asking my question. The TA takes 5 minutes to read the problem, then says she's unsure and needs to read the solution. She spends another five minutes reading the solution and says she doesn't understand it. She then suggests we ask on Piazza. Then what's the point of her holding office hours or even being a TA? Sometimes I feel like there isn't sufficient vetting of TA candidates.

Vincent and I worked on our pitch deck for Hilbert and met with Kris and David from Thompson Hine. I really like them, personally and professionally. One challenge is figuring out how to phrase a question to get the answer you want. They're very factual and process oriented, but asking a question like "how can I do X"typically yields a much lower quality answer than "is X legal" or "can you setup X". They seem more focused on how things are and less focused on how things could be.

I worked on my Nimrod project. I'm getting really frustrated by our lack of progress. I don't know why it's so hard to get a circuit that learns the way we want it to learn. It's honestly amazing. On the bright side, our failures suggest that the space of possible solutions is quite small, which is promising since it means if we find a solution, we'll be more capable of making statements about it.

### Wednesday

### Thursday

Total work time: 11:46

The past few days have been rough. I had a problem set for 6.438 that was the hardest part of my life.
I was so frustrated I emailed the instructors afterwards to say that the problem set was far too long,
far too poorly written and really, lacking educational value.

I'm behind on my Nimrod research, and the deadline for Cosyne is in 7 days. I haven't finished my NeurIPS poster,
which is due tomorrow, and I did no work for Cengiz this week. I haven't started my statement of purpose,
and Cengiz needs it to write his letter for my PhD apps. I also did no work for Ila this week.

I have been working one hour a day with Vincent in Hilbert. Dani told us that investors will be investing in
us moreso than our idea, so we need to turn them on to our qualifications. Vincent and I thought that was
great advice. We also finished another iteration of our pitch.

We meet with Lara Hodgson yesterday and Peter Gladstone today. Both gave us great ideas. Lara volunteered
to introduce us to someone who could tell us the tradeoffs of treating shared ownership as a security versus
real estate. She also suggested reaching out to credit unions as possible lenders. Peter Gladstone suggested rephrasing
our pitch as fixing issues with joint ownership exits, which sounds much less exciting but might be more practical.
The TODO list keeps growing.

Still no presidential results. I wasted so much time checking.

I ran for 50 minutes today. Getting better, but my left knee hurts.

I learned our cute new postdoc has a bf. How do I find single girls during coronavirus? They all seem to be taken.

### Friday

Total work time: 03:41

Totally exhausted. Submitted NeurIPS poster and went back to bed. If your election lasts longer than
four days, you may have a national problem.

### Saturday

Total work time: 11:29

### Sunday

Total work time: 9:14