# Harvard AM207 Fall 2020
## Bayesian Methods for Data Analysis, Inference and Optimization

Update: I received a [Certificate of Distinction](2020_am207_distinction.pdf)
from Harvard's Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning in recognition
of my "excellence in teaching".

The scale ranges from 5 (Excellent) to 1 (Unsatisfactory):

| Question | Num. of Resp. | Rylan Mean | FAS Mean |
| -------- | ----- | ---------- | -------- |
| Evaluate Rylan overall | 12 | 4.83 | 4.61|
| Gives effective lectures of presentations | 8 | 4.88 | 4.53|
| Facilities discussion and encourages participation | 10 | 4.90 | 4.53|
| Is accessible outside of class | 12 |  4.92 | 4.66|
| Generates enthusiasm for the subject matter |12 | 4.83 | 4.51 |
| Gives useful feedback on assignments| 8 | 4.38 | 4.54 |
| Return assignments in a timely fashion| 8 |  4.75 | 4.53

Student testimonials:

- "Rylan's office hours got me through this course! I always left with an even clearer understanding of the concepts from class that week
  and how they related to the homework assignments. His sense of humor and clear excitement in the course material made those
  Saturday afternoon sessions a joy to experience very week. Thank you, Rylan!!"
- "Stayed late at OH on numerous occasions to help students out; awesome overall! Also just seems like a very fun / nice person."
- "I can't say enough good things about Rylan's section. I would not have passed the class without him. He didn't just answer questions,
  he basically taught an entire lesson so we would understand the homework assignment and be able to complete it. Rylan is a talented
  teacher, and he went above and beyond with how much he cared about helping the students in this class."
- "Rylan knows the material extremely well and does a great job helping with troubleshooting and overall background knowledge and
  intuition for the pset. For feedback, I would apprecaite if Ryland can move through OH in a timely manner with an agenda as OH
  usually goes over."
- "Rylan is a wonderful TF. He's very accessible, and his enthusiasm for the material shows. His feedback on assignments also included
  actionable improvements. He is good at explaining things using a socratic method."
- "Hi Rylan! I'm so grateful for your joy for the course material and comprehensive explanations. I can see that you deeply enjoy the
  course material which was always inspiring and uplifting for me."
- "Rylan is full of enthusiasm for the material and also for teaching in general! He will make a great professor one day, I'm sure."

[Click for raw data](teaching/2020_am207.pdf)

A private email from a student:


> Hi Rylan,
>
> I don't think we've ever officially met, but my name is [redacted] and I started
[my program] this fall. I also attended your AM207 office hours almost
every week this semester, and I just wanted to say thank you so much for making them
fun, educational, and accessible!
>
> I've been out of school for [several years] so 207 was rather daunting, and I honestly
wouldn't have made it through the class without your weekly recap of the concepts in
lecture, how they relate to the homework, and the rationale behind what we should
expect to see in our own implementations. I'm sure teaching into the gather.town
void was difficult, so thought I'd drop a note here and let you know that you did
a great job. :)
>
> Thanks again and happy holidays!  
> [Redacted]
